.TH FD 1
.SH NAME
fd \- find entries in the filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fd
.RB [ \-HIEsiaLp0hV ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR depth ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR filetype ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR ext ]
.RB [ \-E
.IR exclude ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR when ]
.RB [ \-j
.IR num ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR cmd ]
.RI [ pattern ]
.RI [ path... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fd
is a simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to
.BR find (1).
.P
By default
.B fd
uses regular expressions for the pattern. However, this can be changed to use simple glob patterns
with the '\-\-glob' option.
.P
By default
.B fd
will exclude hidden files and directories, as well as any files that match gitignore rules
or ignore rules in .ignore or .fdignore files. For convenenience, '.git' is treated as if it
was always included in gitignore rules. These files can be included with options such as
'\-\-hidden' and '\-\-no\-ignore'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-hidden
Include hidden files and directories in the search results
(default: hidden files and directories are skipped). The flag can be overridden with '--no-hidden'.
.IP
Ignored files and .git/ are still excluded unless \-\-no\-ignore or \-\-no\-ignore\-vcs
is also used.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-no\-ignore
Show search results from files and directories that would otherwise be ignored by
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.I .gitignore
.IP \[bu]
.I .git/info/exclude
.IP \[bu]
The global gitignore configuration (by default
.IR $HOME/.config/git/ignore )
.IP \[bu]
.I .ignore
.IP \[bu]
.I .fdignore
.IP \[bu]
The global fd ignore file (usually
.I $HOME/.config/fd/ignore
)
.RE
.IP
The flag can be overridden with '--ignore'.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-unrestricted
Perform an unrestricted search, including ignored and hidden files. This is an alias for '--hidden --no-ignore'.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-ignore\-vcs
Show search results from files and directories that would otherwise be ignored by gitignore files
including
.IR  .gitignore ,
.IR  .git/info/exclude ,
and the global gitignore configuration
.RI ( core.excludesFile
git setting, which defaults to
.IR $HOME/.config/git/ignore ).
The pattern ".git/" is automatically added to the list of VCS ignore rules.
The flag can be overridden with '--ignore-vcs'.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-require\-git
Do not require a git repository to respect gitignores. By default, fd will only
respect global gitignore rules, .gitignore rules and local exclude rules if fd
detects that you are searching inside a git repository. This flag allows you to
relax this restriction such that fd will respect all git related ignore rules
regardless of whether you’re searching in a git repository or not. The flag can
be overridden with '--require-git'.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-ignore\-parent
Show search results from files and directories that would otherwise be ignored by gitignore files in
parent directories.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-case\-sensitive
Perform a case-sensitive search. By default, fd uses case-insensitive searches, unless the
pattern contains an uppercase character (smart case).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ignore\-case
Perform a case-insensitive search. By default, fd uses case-insensitive searches, unless the
pattern contains an uppercase character (smart case).
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-glob
Perform a glob-based search instead of a regular expression search.
If combined with the '\-\-full-path' option, '**' can be used to match multiple path components.
.TP
.B \-\-regex
Perform a regular-expression based search (default). This can be used to override --glob.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-fixed\-strings
Treat the pattern as a literal string instead of a regular expression. Note that this also
performs substring comparison. If you want to match on an exact filename, consider using '\-\-glob'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-and " pattern
Add additional required search patterns, all of which must be matched. Multiple additional
patterns can be specified. The patterns are regular expressions, unless '\-\-glob'
or '\-\-fixed\-strings' is used.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-absolute\-path
Shows the full path starting from the root as opposed to relative paths.
The flag can be overridden with '--relative-path'.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list\-details
Use a detailed listing format like 'ls -l'. This is basically an alias
for '--exec-batch ls -l' with some additional 'ls' options. This can be used
to see more metadata, to show symlink targets and to achieve a deterministic
sort order.
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-follow
By default, fd does not descend into symlinked directories. Using this flag, symbolic links are
also traversed. The flag can be overridden with '--no-follow'.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-full\-path
By default, the search pattern is only matched against the filename (or directory name). Using
this flag, the
.I pattern
is matched against the full path.
.TP
.B \-0, \-\-print0
Separate search results by the null character (instead of newlines). Useful for piping results to
.IR xargs .
.TP
.B \-\-max\-results count
Limit the number of search results to 'count' and quit immediately.
.TP
.B \-1
Limit the search to a single result and quit immediately. This is an alias for '--max-results=1'.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
When the flag is present, the program does not print anything and will instead exit with a code of 0 if there is at least one search result.
Otherwise, the exit code will be 1.
This is mainly for usage in scripts and can be faster than checking for output because the search can be stopped early after the first match.
.B \-\-has\-results
can be used as an alias.
.TP
.B \-\-show-errors
Enable the display of filesystem errors for situations such as insufficient
permissions or dead symlinks.
.TP
.B \-\-strip-cwd-prefix
By default, relative paths are prefixed with './' when the output goes to a non interactive terminal
(TTY). Use this flag to disable this behaviour.
.TP
.B \-\-one\-file\-system, \-\-mount, \-\-xdev
By default, fd will traverse the file system tree as far as other options dictate. With this flag, fd ensures that it does not descend into a different file system than the one it started in. Comparable to the -mount or -xdev filters of find(1).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information.
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-max\-depth " d
Limit directory traversal to at most
.I d
levels of depth. By default, there is no limit on the search depth.
.TP
.BI "\-\-min\-depth " d
Only show search results starting at the given depth. See also: '--max-depth' and '--exact-depth'.
.TP
.BI "\-\-exact\-depth " d
Only show search results at the exact given depth. This is an alias for '--min-depth <depth> --max-depth <depth>'.
.TP
.B \-\-prune
Do not traverse into matching directories.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-type " filetype
Filter search by type:
.RS
.IP "f, file"
regular files
.IP "d, directory"
directories
.IP "l, symlink"
symbolic links
.IP "b, block-device"
block devices
.IP "c, char-device"
character devices
.IP "s, socket"
sockets
.IP "p, pipe"
named pipes (FIFOs)
.IP "x, executable"
executable (files)
.IP "e, empty"
empty files or directories
.RE

.RS
This option can be specified more than once to include multiple file types.
Searching for '--type file --type symlink' will show both regular files as well as
symlinks. Note that the 'executable' and 'empty' filters work differently: '--type
executable' implies '--type file' by default. And '--type empty' searches for
empty files and directories, unless either '--type file' or '--type directory' is
specified in addition.

Examples:
  - Only search for files:
      fd --type file …
      fd -tf …
  - Find both files and symlinks
      fd --type file --type symlink …
      fd -tf -tl …
  - Find executable files:
      fd --type executable
      fd -tx
  - Find empty files:
      fd --type empty --type file
      fd -te -tf
  - Find empty directories:
      fd --type empty --type directory
      fd -te -td
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-e, \-\-extension " ext
Filter search results by file extension
.IR ext .
This option can be used repeatedly to allow for multiple possible file extensions.

If you want to search for files without extension, you can use the regex '^[^.]+$'
as a normal search pattern.
.TP
.BI "\-E, \-\-exclude " pattern
Exclude files/directories that match the given glob pattern.
This overrides any other ignore logic.
Multiple exclude patterns can be specified.
Examples:
  \-\-exclude '*.pyc'
  \-\-exclude node_modules
.TP
.BI "\-\-ignore-file " path
Add a custom ignore-file in '.gitignore' format.
These files have a low precedence.
.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-color " when
Declare
.I when
to colorize search results:
.RS
.IP auto
Colorize output when standard output is connected to terminal (default).
.IP never
Do not colorize output.
.IP always
Always colorize output.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-j, \-\-threads " num
Set number of threads to use for searching & executing (default: number of available CPU cores).
.TP
.BI "\-S, \-\-size " size
Limit results based on the size of files using the format
.I <+-><NUM><UNIT>
.RS
.IP '+'
file size must be greater than or equal to this
.IP '-'
file size must be less than or equal to this
.P
If neither '+' nor '-' is specified, file size must be exactly equal to this.
.IP 'NUM'
The numeric size (e.g. 500)
.IP 'UNIT'
The units for NUM. They are not case-sensitive.
Allowed unit values:
.RS
.IP 'b'
bytes
.IP 'k'
kilobytes (base ten, 10^3 = 1000 bytes)
.IP 'm'
megabytes
.IP 'g'
gigabytes
.IP 't'
terabytes
.IP 'ki'
kibibytes (base two, 2^10 = 1024 bytes)
.IP 'mi'
mebibytes
.IP 'gi'
gibibytes
.IP 'ti'
tebibytes
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-changed-within " date|duration
Filter results based on the file modification time.
Files with modification times greater than the argument will be returned.
The argument can be provided as a duration (\fI10h, 1d, 35min\fR) or as a specific point
in time in either full RFC3339 format with time zone, or as a date or datetime in the
local time zone (\fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR or \fIYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS\fR).
\fB\-\-change-newer-than\fR,
.B --newer
or
.B --changed-after
can be used as aliases.

Examples:
  \-\-changed-within 2weeks
  \-\-change-newer-than "2018-10-27 10:00:00"
  \-\-newer 2018-10-27
.TP
.BI "\-\-changed-before " date|duration
Filter results based on the file modification time.
Files with modification times less than the argument will be returned.
The argument can be provided as a duration (\fI10h, 1d, 35min\fR) or as a specific point
in time in either full RFC3339 format with time zone, or as a date or datetime in the
local time zone (\fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR or \fIYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS\fR).
.B --change-older-than
or
.B --older
can be used as aliases.

Examples:
  \-\-changed-before "2018-10-27 10:00:00"
  \-\-change-older-than 2weeks
.TP
.BI "-o, \-\-owner " [user][:group]
Filter files by their user and/or group. Format: [(user|uid)][:(group|gid)]. Either side
is optional. Precede either side with a '!' to exclude files instead.

Examples:
  \-\-owner john
  \-\-owner :students
  \-\-owner "!john:students"
.TP
.BI "\-\-base\-directory " path
Change the current working directory of fd to the provided path. This means that search results will
be shown with respect to the given base path. Note that relative paths which are passed to fd via the
positional \fIpath\fR argument or the \fB\-\-search\-path\fR option will also be resolved relative to
this directory.
.TP
.BI "\-\-path\-separator " separator
Set the path separator to use when printing file paths. The default is the OS-specific separator
('/' on Unix, '\\' on Windows).
.TP
.BI "\-\-search\-path " search\-path
Provide paths to search as an alternative to the positional \fIpath\fR argument. Changes the usage to
\'fd [FLAGS/OPTIONS] \-\-search\-path PATH \-\-search\-path PATH2 [PATTERN]\'
.TP
.BI "\-x, \-\-exec " command
.RS
Execute
.I command
for each search result in parallel (use --threads=1 for sequential command execution).

Note that all subsequent positional arguments are considered to be arguments to the
.I command
- not to fd.
It is therefore recommended to place the \-x/\-\-exec option last. Alternatively, you can supply
a ';' argument to end the argument list and continue with more fd options.
Most shells require ';' to be escaped: '\\;'.
This option can be specified multiple times, in which case all commands are run for each
file found, in the order they are provided. In that case, you must supply a ';' argument for
all but the last commands.

If parallelism is enabled, the order commands will be executed in is non-deterministic. And even with
--threads=1, the order is determined by the operating system and may not be what you expect. Thus, it is
recommended that you don't rely on any ordering of the results.

The following placeholders are substituted before the command is executed:
.RS
.IP {}
path (of the current search result)
.IP {/}
basename
.IP {//}
parent directory
.IP {.}
path without file extension
.IP {/.}
basename without file extension
.IP {{
literal '{' (an escape sequence)
.IP }}
literal '}' (an escape sequence)
.RE

If no placeholder is present, an implicit "{}" at the end is assumed.

Notice that you can use "{{" and "}}" to escape "{" and "}" respectively, which is especially
useful if you need to include the literal text of one of the above placeholders.

Examples:

  - find all *.zip files and unzip them:

        fd -e zip -x unzip

  - find *.h and *.cpp files and run "clang-format -i .." for each of them:

        fd -e h -e cpp -x clang-format -i

  - Convert all *.jpg files to *.png files:

        fd -e jpg -x convert {} {.}.png
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-X, \-\-exec-batch " command
.RS
Execute
.I command
once, with all search results as arguments.

The order of the arguments is non-deterministic and should not be relied upon.

One of the following placeholders is substituted before the command is executed:
.RS
.IP {}
path (of all search results)
.IP {/}
basename
.IP {//}
parent directory
.IP {.}
path without file extension
.IP {/.}
basename without file extension
.RE

If no placeholder is present, an implicit "{}" at the end is assumed.

Like \-\-exec, this can be used multiple times, in which case each command will be run in
the order given.

Examples:

  - Find all test_*.py files and open them in your favorite editor:

        fd -g 'test_*.py' -X vim

    Note that this executes a single "vim" process with all search results as arguments.

  - Find all *.rs files and count the lines with "wc -l ...":

        fd -e rs -X wc -l
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-batch-size " size
Maximum number of arguments to pass to the command given with -X. If the number of results is
greater than the given size, the command given with -X is run again with remaining arguments. A
batch size of zero means there is no limit (default), but note that batching might still happen
due to OS restrictions on the maximum length of command lines.
.SH PATTERN SYNTAX
The regular expression syntax used by fd is documented here:

    https://docs.rs/regex/1.0.0/regex/#syntax

The glob syntax is documented here:

    https://docs.rs/globset/#syntax
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LS_COLORS
Determines how to colorize search results, see
.BR dircolors (1) .
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disables colorized output.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME, HOME
Used to locate the global ignore file. If
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is set, use
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/fd/ignore .
Otherwise, use
.IR $HOME/.config/fd/ignore .
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.RI "Find files and directories that match the pattern '" needle "':"
$ fd needle
.TP
.RI "Start a search in a given directory (" /var/log "):"
$ fd nginx /var/log
.TP
.RI "Find all Python files (all files with the extension " .py ") in the current directory:"
$ fd -e py
.TP
.RI "Open all search results with vim:"
$ fd pattern -X vim
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported on GitHub: https://github.com/sharkdp/fd/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1)
